slope
terrain slope refers to the measurement of steepness or incline at any given point on the land surface.
It is an essential part of terrain analysis. A slope is represented as an angle in degrees or as a percentage.
Slope Calculation in Degrees (0-90): Slope is expressed as the angle between a horizontal plane and a terrain surface. A 0° slope denotes a flat terrain whereas, a 90° slope represents a vertical incline.
https://gisnavigator.co.uk/slope-and-aspect-terrain-analysis/


aspect
Aspect, in the context of geographical and environmental concepts, refers to the direction that a slope faces in relation to the cardinal points (north, south, east, west).
Aspect helps in determining the microclimate of an area as it influences the amount of sunlight that particular area happens to receive throughout the day.
South-facing slopes receive more sunlight as compared to the north-facing slopes.
The method of calculating aspects involves the analysis of DEMs and other topographic data. The aspect is shown in the data as an angle ranging from 0 to 360 degrees.
Allow us to share what the values correspond to:  0° corresponds to the north, 90° corresponds to the east, 180° corresponds to the south and 270° corresponds to the west. 
https://gisnavigator.co.uk/slope-and-aspect-terrain-analysis/


tpi
TPI measures the difference between elevation at the central point (z0) and the average elevation (z) around it within a predetermined radius (R).
Positive TPI values indicate that the central point is located higher than its average surroundings, while negative values indicate a position lower than the average.
The range of TPI depends not only on elevation differences but also on R.
Large R-values mainly reveal major landscape units, while smaller values highlight smaller features, such as minor valleys and ridges.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.geomorph.2012.12.015


windward index
The objective of the maximum upwind slope (Sx) parameter was to quantify the extent of shelter or exposure provided by the terrain upwind of each pixel.
To determine the value of the Sx parameter, we examined all cells along a vector emanating from the cell of interest, determined the cell that had the greatest upward
slope relative to the cell of interest, and returned the slope between this shelter-defining cell and the cell of interest.
The selection of a maximum shelter-producing pixel based on slope is analogous to the determination of solar shading within the horizon function used in radiation modeling.
Negative Sx values indicated exposure relative to the shelter-defining pixel (i.e., the cell of interest was higher than the shelter-defining pixel). Theoretically,
increasingly negative Sx values correspond to greater constrictions on the approaching wind flow, leading to increasing wind speeds, while increasingly positive Sx
values correspond to larger and more proximal landscape obstacles, producing a greater degree of shelter and lower wind speeds.
Winstral et al: Spatial Snow Modeling of Wind-Redistributed Snow Using Terrain-Based Parameters (2002)
https://doi.org/10.1175/1525-7541(2002)003%3C0524:SSMOWR%3E2.0.CO;2